---
layout: post
title: "Week 9: Making First Contact"
---

Welcome to Blog 9! This week we started our open source group projects and had an insightful guest speaker help us navigate the uncertainty of first contributions.

## Tom Callaway Guest Speaker 
This week we had an Open Source Technologist, Tom Callaway, as a guest speaker. Tom Callaway, worked nearly twenty years with Red Hat and is now working with AWS, guiding Amazon through their open source endeavors. The class was very fortunate to have someone so knowledgeable in the open source field. According to Callaway, open source is deeply ingrained in most modern businesses and it is here to stay! Businesses are racing to adopt open source business models in fear of getting left behind. Whereas open source was previously viewed as a questionable approach to making a profit, privatized business initiatives are deemed less efficient today. 

Callaway spoke on the complexities that arise from interacting with open source communities, especially when a massive company like Amazon wants to get involved in a smaller open source community. This is where Callaway comes in. He must point out mistakes that Amazon has made with other open source projects and provide better practices that would allow them to be accepted rather than met with hostility. For instance, Callaway mentioned an open source search engine project that Amazon utilizes in their software. Tension rose between Amazon and this community, which resulted in the search engine source being closed entirely, only allowing Amazon to access the latest public release. As a result, Amazon forked the latest update and continued to maintain a localized version of it. In order to prevent conflicts like this from occurring, Callaway gave some appropriate actions to take when making “first contact” with a community. First is transparency. Amazon must give their motives for contributing and stay true to that. Second is for a new contributor like Amazon to resolve the bugs that no one else wants to. These are a couple of many actions that can be taken to maintain a good relationship with new open source communities.


## Blender
This week we also started group projects. In our groups we selected an open source project to contribute to and have begun working on specific issues and features. My group of three has selected Blender as our open source project. Blender is a widely used 3D modeling platform. We selected this project because it seemed very interesting and beginner friendly. This project is not on Github, which is our main obstacle at the moment, figuring out how to maneuver our way through tasks. Each of us have already run localized versions of the app on our machines. We will continue to ease our way into this community by taking care of any low hanging fruit. Hopefully, we can eventually tackle a new add-on feature. But for now my hope is that my group is accepted into this community and we can make some meaningful contributions in the next coming weeks.

