---
layout: post
title: "Week 3: Browser Extension Group Project"
---

## My Group Work

I worked with two other undergraduate developers to create a Mozilla Firefox Browser Extension. Prior to this exercise, I had never created an extension. I was fortunate to be paired with bright minds that were welcoming and constructive. One of my group members, Alex, proposed a style change to the browser that we eventually named Blinking Borders. This would create a fun border around the browser that would be removed and reapplied every 500 milliseconds. The extension comes with a few options on colored themes, and a reset button that would halt the program. 

## My Contributions

For the most part, my contributions were centered around the files that make our project open source. As someone who mainly focuses on code itself and not documentation, it was a fundamental learning experience. I was able to understand the importance of documentation and what files are necessary for open source projects. 
My favorite part of this project was helping my teammates. I am knowledgeable in Javascript and Git, which allowed me to provide sufficient help to my group members whenever they were stumped. When Alex couldn’t get the Javascript reset function to work, or Rebecca had issues with a merge conflict, I was excited to help. I discovered that helping others with something I am passionate about can be even more exhilarating than doing it myself. 

## Other Team Projects

On February 15, 2022, all groups in our Open Source Software Development course presented their projects. I am happy to say this might have been the best class I’ve ever taken at NYU. I was in awe of the projects that my classmates developed. There were so many real products that users would find incredibly helpful. I’ve always been interested in Open Source Development, but I’ve never been this encouraged to contribute to one. In the near future, I hope that I can find the time to contribute to some of the projects that my classmates developed. For example, Team 6 created an extension that hides all recommendations on YouTube. Team 1 created a Less Ugly Brightspace which served as a Dark style for NYU’s course software. Team A created a “Searchionary” that allows you to search a word in the Webster dictionary with a simple drop-down. These are just some of the many inspiring projects I witnessed. 

## Conclusion

If you are reading this I encourage you to stay tuned for my upcoming blogs. This course is introducing me, as well as many other young developers, to a world of Open Source. This small project provides a glimpse into what this course will offer us and you do not want to miss it! Until next time.
