---
layout: post
title: "Week 6: Open Data"
---

Welcome to Blog 6! Today I will cover a fascinating guest lecture that introduces open data as a solution to illnesses like diabetes.

## Christopher Snider Guest Lecture

This week, our class had the pleasure of having [Christopher Snider](https://www.linkedin.com/in/christopherasnider/), Community and Clinic Success Manager of [Tidepool](https://opensource.com/article/22/2/transparency-open-source-healthcare-software), give us a presentation. Christopher introduced Tidepool’s innovative technology, which allows type 1 diabetes patients to track insulin levels and automate insulin injections into patients’ bloodstream. Christopher, who is diagnosed with diabetes, educated the class on what diabetes is. This was enlightening to me and others who had only a vague idea of what diabetes is. Diabetes patients are responsible for keeping track of their own insulin levels at all times, and it holds substantial weight on all their decisions. The traditional method of pricking a finger to test insulin levels is inefficient, since a patient is limited to how many times a day they can check their insulin. Tidepool’s open source solution now allows patients to check their insulin every 5 minutes from any device with internet access. This relatively new technology is globally accessible and anyone is welcome to fork the software and contribute to it. After all, the project *is* open source.

Many students were wondering why such a revolutionary project was made open-source. This was when Christopher went on to introduce the importance of Radical Transparency in the Tidepool community. That is, Tidepool places all their cards on the table for the world to see. And what has come of it? Well, several countries have already forked their software and created localized instances of it, ingrained with local languages. Countless external contributors have corrected errors and improved their software, which is important considering the small size of 35 employees at Tidepool. And there is now a vast amount of data available for scientific research to better understand diabetes. Diabetes is a global problem so why should it be handled privately? An open source alternative allows brilliant minds around the world to come together to solve this problem. 

## Open Data

Here, we see an instance of an organization publicizing medical data. This is an example of open data, as opposed to private data. Although open data is on the rise, there is lots of controversy surrounding this area, especially when it comes to medical data. No one can guarantee that this public data will not be misused by others. Whereas medical data can improve research in areas like diabetes, it can also be used against individuals who have submitted their medical records. If individuals are recognized as having diabetes or other illnesses, they can be vulnerable to discrimination, wether if its by health insurance companies, hiring companies, other people, etc. 

###  Anonymous data

There is also the prospect of submitting data anonymously. But then how secure is your anonymity? Algorithms that hide identities of anonymous individuals can be and have been traced back to the actual identity.

### Conclusion

Herein lies the question, what should be the balance between open data and private data? Should we make all our data open or all our data private, or is there some in between? It seems societies are held responsible for appropriately utilizing open data, which is becoming more common every day. Open source business models are being recognized as the most efficient method. It is up to us, as the future generation of open source leaders, to set the grounds for proper use of data. 



