---
layout: post
title: "Week 12: Open Source in Film"
---
 
Hi there! This week I will cover Open Source Motion Picture Technology. The Film Industry has flourished since the recent and gradual adoption of open source business models. I’ve had the opportunity to explore the open source technologies that are utilized to create revolutionary motion pictures like Toy Story, The Incredibles, and Star Wars. 
 
## Open Source in Film
 
This week we watched a presentation: The Transformation of an Industry: Open Source in Film. The featured speakers, Carol Payne and Larry Gritz, provided enlightening insight on recent developments in the film industry. The last couple centuries have brought us innovations that revolutionized film production. According to Gritz, the industry transitioned from one company making a movie to various organizations collaborating on a single movie simultaneously. Interoperability of software packages is made possible with open file formats being shared by vendors through pipelines, on the account of Payne, who has experienced the up and coming changes of the Film industry as they were going down in her workplace. Some of the various organizations that contribute to open source film production include Netflix, Sony, and Pixar. Common technologies like Blender and Unity are used to create portable files that can be read and edited by other studios.
 
I continue to be surprised by the content in this class. Open Source business models have been occupying yet another massive industry I had never considered. This lecture also came at a time that I am taking 3D animation training at my workplace, SAP. It allows me to connect the work I’ve been doing to an efficient business workflow. Also coincidentally, my group has been contributing to Blender! 
 
## Blender Continued
 
In my Week 10 blog, I described the bumpy, yet exciting start to making Blender contributions with my group. I mentioned a learning block that non-Blender users like myself found very frustrating. Nevertheless, we have begun to ingrain ourselves in this community, and successfully I might add. We picked up an abandoned issue that required a maintainer’s decision. The [bug](https://developer.blender.org/T88115) is that the shortcut key for a tool is not working because it is occupied by another 
tool. With this Duplicate Shortcut issue, I used documentation as well as commit history to find where the code for this shortcut is implemented. I suggested a possible replacement shortcut for the tool that is not working. The developers have been very welcoming and helpful in the chat. It was fascinating to initiate a long conversation in the Blender developer chat. It seemed my message struck the interest of many developers and they immediately responded with enthusiasm. Now we must wait for a decision, so I can push my commit for review. That being said, I look forward to the documentation needing to be modified according to the new functionality that we will add.