---
layout: post
title: "Week 14: Riju Khatri's Guest Lecture"
---

## Guest Lecture: Riju Khatri

This week, the class was honored to have the graduate student, former Black Rock Analyst, and Open Source Software Engineer, Riju Khatri, give us a guest lecture. Riju was able to provide insight on being an open source contributor, at a time when we needed it most. It was great to see where open source has taken this bright individual. 

I asked her the question, “Should open source contributions be on a resume?” To this she responded, “Yes”. As a matter of fact, Riju admitted to putting open source projects in her own resume. She then continued to claim that the time she has devoted to open source projects greatly outweighs the time spent working for Black Rock in terms of experience, even though she has spent more time at Black Rock. This advice is certainly what everyone in the class needed to hear. As upperclassmen looking for Software positions it is a relief to find out that our devotion to an open source project and open source learning has not been in vain. Although the process of getting into a new open source community can be excruciating, the outcome is highly rewarding. In fact, the continued pursuit of open source software development beyond this course can bring about a formidable skill set against other developers for hire. 

## Presentations

Riju’s talk led up perfectly to the first round of Final Group Project Presentations. Yes, I said final! This wonderful course is coming to an end, and so are our group contributions. Nevertheless, you all know how much I love to see my peers present their work. I got the chance to witness the CAGOV group, who successfully merged changes to the CAGOV website. If you remember from the last blog, the CAGOV group has been a blast to watch. They kept close communication with developers every week and were assigned countless web development tasks. This resulted in several changes that were visually noticeable. I mean the pleasure one must have to announce, “See that government website, I changed that.” 

Another group that had me on the edge of my seat was the group that contributed to Open Library, an open source book tool. This group also became buddies with the project owners. They were able to share some hilarious conversations between developers. Moreover, impressive style changes and translations were made.

I guess what excites me the most is the interactions people have within their open source communities. It definitely reminds me of internships that I have had. The process to ingrain yourself in these communities is almost exactly like the onboarding process of a software developer position. To get started, you need to set up the proper environment, maintain respectful and constructive conversations, and learn your way through contributing your own code.
