---
layout: post
title: "Week 5: Project Evaluation"
---

Welcome back to my Open Source blog! This week I will be sharing about our project evaluation activity, as well as an intriguing short film.

## Project Evaluation Activity

Students were placed into pairs and each pair was given an open source project to investigate. My fellow classmate Yu Sung and I were assigned the GNOME Clock project. This project is essentially a clock/timer/alarm application, designed for all time zones. Upon investigation, this big global project name checks all the boxes for an open source project. More specifically, an open source license is used, a code of conduct, beginner friendly Contributor information, and an active community of members. 

The GNOME Clock project surprised me with its use of technologies and platforms that were unfamiliar to me. The main programming language, which I’ve never heard of, is Vala, which happens to be comparable to C#. Nevertheless, there were plenty of tutorials for beginners who are unfamiliar with the language. The project repository is hosted on GitLab, a platform that I have never used before, as most developers at my university seem to be using GitHub for version control. Even the chat channels, IRC and Matrix, are unknown to me. This shows that contributing to open source projects requires a tremendous amount of curiosity, to constantly learn how to use new technologies every turn you take. This can be overwhelming to some developers, yet exciting to others.


## Short Films

This week we also watched a series of short films on a variety of open source projects. The project that peaked my interest was featured in the short film: [Farming for the Future](https://www.redhat.com/en/open-source-stories/farming-for-the-future). This film shed a light on an entirely new way to perceive farming through an open source initiative to cultivate land via robotics. I saw the nationwide effort to jointly build software that improves agricultural productivity. 

This film amazed me because I would often sit and ponder with like minded individuals about global crises, one of them being world hunger. The global population is growing at a rapid rate that would make this issue more difficult to overcome. Nevertheless, this film has demonstrated something crucial. Instead of relying on and even working for private organizations that claim to be tackling world hunger, we can contribute directly to this National effort to fix the problem. The fact that such a solution exists is extraordinary. But the idea that anyone around the world can play their part is phenomenal.
