---
layout: post
title: "Week 15: Farewell Blender"
---

## Closing Blender Project

I am happy to say that my group managed to close off the semester with a good number of contributions to Blender. However, while working with the Blender team, we moved away from the Blender app software and shifted our focus to the blender.org website. After resolving a shortcut key issue in Blender itself, we felt contributing to a website would be a lot easier than the complexities of Blender itself. So the journey began to switch gears to an entirely new project, one which happened to be deceivingly more complex to build on our local machines. Luckily, we still had the same Blender community to point us in the right direction. 

Aside from a few Documentation contributions, the group and I set out to increase Performance, Accessibility and Search Engine Optimization in the blender.org webpages. How did we manage to do that? Well, we used a built-in Google Chrome developer tool called Lighthouse, which would scan the website running in the browser and provide percentage ratings on certain categories. It also highlights the exact areas of code that could be improved to directly increase the Lighthouse ratings. We targeted these suggestions immediately. We submitted patches that would provide image tags for the visually impaired, and proposed a next-gen image format that would decrease loading time of the website by 5 seconds.

## Presentations

In the last blog I got to touch on the thrill of watching the presentations of others in class. This week it was our time to shine. We cooked up an elaborate presentation, to share our rocky yet rewarding road to being a Blender contributor. I’m happy we jumped ship to the blender website. It allowed the team members to play to their strengths by focusing on web development, and being more effective because of it. Just like a company would want you working at a position where you are more skilled and interested, it is in your best interest to be passionate about the project you are working on. That is why I am grateful to have failed early on and quickly discover a new path to making meaningful contributions at Blender

## My thoughts on Blender? 

The developer community is quick and responsive, but the large scale of it can intimidate new contributors, as well as leave their inquiries unanswered if they aren’t persistent enough. That being said, you must be on top of communications constantly if you wish to contribute. It also isn’t very beginner-friendly, since the so-called Good First Issues aren’t simple at all. There is countless Documentation to assist you in your journey, but this can also be crushing to those who think that contributing will be quick and painless. I most likely will not find myself contributing to Blender in the future, not because of their community but because of the learning curve I would have to overcome as a Blender user. Dear Blender, it isn’t you, it’s me. Farewell.
