---
layout: post
title: "Week 2: Open Source Code of Conduct"
---

This week in Open Source, we covered the Code of Conduct document that most open source projects post on their webpages. This document is meant to ensure that those who contribute to the project abide by certain behavioral guidelines. In this blog, we will analyze the Code of Conduct for different open source projects to better understand the importance of such a document.

## Go Project
Our introduction to the Code of Conduct was to read the Go project’s version of the document, based on the Contributor Covenant’s Code of Conduct. Go has done an excellent job in defining the behavioral laws that keep all interactions in their community appropriate and constructive. When many developers collaborate on projects, there is bound to be conflict. Conflicts between members can be deconstructive and even dangerous. I believe all open source projects would benefit from a Code of Conduct. If you are welcoming all people to contribute to your project, you better make sure that you are inviting them to a safe environment, while making sure newcomers don’t misconstrue the values of that community. 

It is important to note the alterations Go has made to the original code of conduct. For instance, the introduction is more elaborate in <em>why</em> the information in this document is so fundamental for the Go community. With the excess of information accessible to individuals in the modern day, it is easy to skim over and even disregard legal documents. However, Go emphasizes that the <em>values</em> they will portray in this document serve a purpose, and that is to maintain a welcoming professional environment amongst diverse individuals. Since this common goal is immediately communicated to the reader, then the values mentioned thereafter will certainly be more pertinent. Another prevalent difference in this document to the original is that the <em>values</em>, like “constructive”, “respectful”, “thoughtful”, and “responsible”, are not only listed, but explicitly defined. This leaves no room for the reader to misinterpret Go’s values, as many people with different cultural backgrounds might have different views on those same values.

## Eclipse

Now let us take a look at another project’s code of conduct. If you take a look at [Eclipse’s Code of Conduct](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php), you will notice that it is almost verbatim to the Contributor Covenant’s Code of Conduct. That is, Eclipse made no effort to make changes to the code of conduct. Instead, it seems they have fulfilled the minimum requirements. If we were to compare this to Go, Eclipse lacks the clarity of values that Go extensively covers. Thus, all values that should be followed are left entirely up to the reader’s interpretation.

## Sugar Labs

The Sugar Labs Code of Conduct may be significantly different from Go, yet also does a decent job in portraying their values. The tone of this legal document feels more simple and easy to understand, after all Sugar Labs is directed towards all age groups. The formatting is simpler: heading, paragraph, heading paragraph, and so on. 
Sugar Labs based their code of conduct on Ubuntu’s code of conduct, which is arguably more elaborate. I can tell why Sugar Labs was inspired by Ubuntu’s document. They are very descriptive in their values and do not forfeit page numbers to get their point across, opposed to Sugar Labs who seems more intent on portraying their workflow rules to the reader. Sugar Labs slightly augmented Ubuntu’s document to fit their values, but did so by cutting half of Ubuntu’s documentation, almost as if it was considered unnecessary.

## My pick: Linux Kernel

Since I have mentioned my frequent use of Linux as a development tool, I took the liberty of examining the [Linux Kernel Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct](https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/process/code-of-conduct.html). This document, like Eclipse's, is minimal, and a copy of the Covenant Code of Conduct. However, Linux provides a complementary document which serves as an [interpretation](https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/process/code-of-conduct-interpretation.html#code-of-conduct-interpretation) of their Code of Conduct. So, in areas where the Code of Conduct may have been vague, the interpretation provides a deeper understanding. However, I will say that moral values are not touched on in this interpretation. Instead, Linux focuses on getting their workflow details across, much like Eclipse’s code of conduct. This makes sense since new contributors can find contributing to this project confusing. But, I still feel it is important to stress the values that keep your community safe so that those same values can be upheld. 

## Conclusion
Moreover, Open Source communities are still relatively new. Jumping into such a free business model requires laws of conduct, if not more so than, just as much as “real” work environments. Just as Federal and Local governments require Anti Harassment training for all employees, these open source communities need to be kept in check. After all, open source contributors are putting their time and effort into perfecting a product that users rely on. They must do so in a virtual, yet real, work environment.



