---
layout: post
title: "Week 10: Scrumming it Out"
---

In today’s blog we will continue highlighting the progress that my group has made in the Blender Group Project. 

## Blender

My group of three chose Blender as our open source project to contribute to. At this point it feels like the familiar onboarding process of a Software Developer internship, without the sweet salary of course. Our efforts have been dedicated to reading the documentation for new contributors, setting up the environment to run Blender locally, setting up the chat channels to communicate with developers, engaging in interactive tutorials to educate ourselves on the Blender software, and easing our way into the Beginner Issues. Overall this experience has been a learning endeavor, full throttle ahead.

## Complications

Now, I never said open source would be easy and I stand by that. The following complications have been obstacles in my path as a new contributor. 

For one, I am not familiar with the Blender software. It isn’t the best idea to contribute to a complex tool like Blender without knowing the ropes. However, I’ve accepted this challenge to research the widely used 3D modeling instrument. That being said, issues have been very difficult to understand and recreate. In response to this brick wall, the team has decided for everyone to create their own 3D object using Blender and bring it to class on Tuesday. We are hoping this detour will allow those of us unfamiliar with Blender to understand it at a deeper level. 

Another complication is the website that Blender uses to host their repo. Thankfully, my team has made substantial progress navigating the murky waters of Blender’s own version control system. It is mirrored on git but all contributions need to be made in the form of code submissions that are reviewed by maintainers. Once we got used to this platform it was easy to find issues and conversations surrounding the issues, as well as documentation for just about anything we need to know. 

## Scrum Team

Our group has agreed to hold Scrum meetings every Sunday, where we discuss our progress, questions, and upcoming tasks. These meetings serve as a great opportunity to get to know my teammates. They serve to be a constructive outlet for us to get our thoughts across.  I may be productively lost in the fundamentals of Blender, but I am grateful to have Jacob and Mariah on my team to endure the challenges alongside me. 
