---
layout: post
title: Week 1:My Open Source Introduction
---
# Week 1: Open Source Introduction
 
Hello World! This will be my first of many weekly blogs regarding the Open Source Software Development course I'm enrolled in.
 
## What is Open Source?
 
I should start by asking the question: What is an Open Source project? I entered this class thinking the obvious answer is a project of which multiple developers contribute to. But that's not quite right. Open source implies that all people are welcome to contribute. The public accessibility of such a project is the defining factor of Open Source. I also had no idea open source is extended to far more than just programming projects, but includes other products and initiatives like Wikipedia.
 
## Advantages of Open Source
 
This kind of project, opposed to closed source, allows entire communities to get behind it. In fact, countless modern companies have gone the open source route. It is arguably the more efficient business model, since it grants daily consumers of software products the freedom to bring forth their own beneficial changes. More hands on deck can be especially oportunos when more developers are needed but budgets are low.
 
## Disadvantages of Open Source
 
There are some cons that arise from open source. One problem is that free access to software forfeits privacy to all prying eyes. In most cases this isn't preferable, especially when considering competition. Another problem is the ambiguity of what can be an open source project. For instance, the morality of allowing all people to contribute to an autonomous weapon of mass destruction is questionable. If you are wondering what the "law" is for what can be open source, the project itself must have a "good" cause. But what is good?
 
## My Motivations for Open Source
 
I see this course as an essential opportunity for my Software Development career. I want to understand the technicalities that come with open source licenses. I expect to be exposed to team projects so that I may strengthen my leadership skills, gain open source workflow experience, and navigate the awkwardness of social interactions between developers.
## Examples of Open Source Products
 
I will list some examples of open source products that I frequently use as a Software Developer.
 
* Whilst developing Web Applications, I use __NPM__, a Node Package Manager for __Javascript__(an open source programming language). NPM provides a vast library of installable packages to perform a variety of operations.
* My go-to IDE editor and the platform I am writing this blog on, __Visual Studio Code__, is also open source.
* The operating system that I commonly use to manage and run applications is __Linux__, which I just discovered is also open source.

## Conclusion

My first week in Open Source Software Development has already been eye openning. I've learned that alot of the software I use on a daily basis happens to be open source. And, I've learned that the projects I have worked on and thought of as open source are not open source at all. I will continue to update this blog by Sunday every week. Stay tuned for all the juicy updates on my upcoming adventures in Open Source Software!
 
 

