---
layout: post
title: "Week 13: Presentations"
---

## Presentations

This week, each group presented their progress on their open source contributions. It was reassuring to see that we weren’t the only group struggling to contribute to an open source project. Each group has their issues, whether it be outdated software, unwelcoming/unresponsive developer communities, confusing documentation, or local environment issues. Nevertheless, each group is clearly striving to complete their first push or having done so already.

My classmates never cease to amaze me. I had the opportunity to sit in on a series of inspiring open source contributor stories. One that caught my interest was Group 1 and their contributions to CAGOV. CAGOV is an open source government website for California residents, where information on COVID-19, Cannabis Regulations, and more can be accessed. Group 1 was fortunate to have a very friendly developer support system. With this came one-on-one Zoom meetings with developers and constant communication. It seems CAGOV is very enthusiastic to have Group 1 provide contributions. Working alongside developers, Group 1 has successfully sent push requests and generated new ideas. They continue to claim demanding tasks and aspire to end this semester with a bang. Not only does Group 1 set a prime example on how to contribute, but they were able to dive deeper into their open source community, in ways they most of us won’t get the chance to. In the last blog, I mentioned the highlight of communicating with other developers in my project. It felt a lot like an internship experience. I’m glad Group 1 was able to become ingrained into their community, as it sets precedence for future projects that I hope to integrate myself into.

## Blender Progress Continued

Fortunately, my group has also made substantial progress since last week and we were able to present it in front of the class. Allow me to provide a quick rundown. We were able to report issues in the documentation. We were able to continue engaging in meaningful discussions with other developers concerning a User Interface issue. This ultimately was put up to a decision by the owners and the issue was resolved. These discussions also directly exposed long-standing issues that were immediately resolved. Throughout this process, my group learned how to fully contribute, from reporting an issue, to submitting a commit for review, to merging to the main branch for deployment. With this knowledge, we are confident that many more issues will be solved by us. As I write this we are in the process of resolving issues and reporting more issues that we will likely resolve. Although we got off to a rough start, I’m happy to say that we are right back on track to making meaningful contributions.
